---
layout: page
title: About Us
permalink: /about-us/
menus: [ secondary ]
---

{% include image.html name="AB Pastor Heng.jpg" width="960" height="640" %}

Tim Maddocks worked as a teacher in the Seventh-day Adventist school system for
several years. He and Wendy were in Western Samoa for three years (1985–1987),
and for two years he taught in Fiji (1988–1989). Wendy was a faithful support as
a wife, and also assisted as a school nurse. In 1989, Tim resigned from teaching
and took the position as the Fulton College farm manager. He served at the farm
for two years.

By this time, the Maddocks family included two sons, Caleb and Shannon. In 1992
the family left Fiji, and returned to Australia for a brief visit. From there,
they accepted a call from Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) and
moved to Siem Reap, Cambodia. The goal was to manage a rice improvement project,
and Tim worked with ADRA until the completion of the project in December 1995.

During their ADRA years in Cambodia, the Maddocks family used their free time to
establish a Seventh-day Adventist congregation in Siem Reap town. Near the end
of the ADRA project, the Holy Spirit laid a new burden on Tim’s heart: Establish
a training centre where lay members of the rapidly-growing Seventh-day Adventist
church could 1) deepen their relationship with God and 2) prepare themselves for
service to God and the Cambodian people. The call was clear; God would provide
if the Maddocks would move ahead in faith.

January 1996 saw that first step of faith. The ADRA work was over, and the
monthly pay cheque had ceased. All that was left was the family savings and a
promise from God that He would provide. Some said it was crazy, others foolish,
but God said, “Go forward and trust Me.”

A search began for a suitable location for the training centre. At the time,
security was still poor in the Cambodian countryside, which was actually a
positive aspect—land prices were still low! The 19-hectare property, today known
as Wat Preah Yesu (Jesus Pagoda), was purchased in March 1996 for $10,000. The
first houses, constructed of bush materials, were built shortly after.

The first resident at Wat Preah Yesu was Mr. Prak Heng (today the district
pastor for the Siem Reap and Odar Mean Chey provinces). Heng and his family
were some of the fruits from church planting in Siem Reap town. Heng’s family
joined him shortly after, and the Maddocks family followed in June 1996. Local
people were hired to assist with the development of the centre and at the same
time provided a ready audience to whom they could share God’s love and His word.

Those were pioneering years, developing a training centre out of a piece of
flat, scrubby rice land. They were also church planting years, as the Buddhist
neighborhood was introduced to Jesus. It was not long before the opportunity
opened up for Wendy to develop a grassroots health ministry, which was to become
the backbone for church planting.

Two important seeds were soon sown. The commune chief asked Tim and Wendy if
they would consider building a primary school, and a friend (Marshall Smith)
provided funds to purchase enough neighboring land to start an orphanage. These
seeds later germinated and became Kantrok Adventist School and the Wat Preah
Yesu Children’s Home.

Wat Preah Yesu was first established with the primary goal of training lay
workers. However, this was not to become a reality until July 1998, when the
first group of 20 lay people moved to Wat Preah Yesu for the first four-month
training program. Over the years, through 2007, the Maddocks watched the miracle
of more than 400 people join one of the twelve training programs. Many of these
lay people became church planting pioneers under the guidance and sponsorship of
SALT Ministries, Global Mission, Gospel Outreach, and Advocates for Southeast
Asians and the Persecuted (ASAP). The effort of these men and women, combined
with the direction of the Cambodia Adventist Mission, has seen the gospel taken
to every province in Cambodia. Those who were not called to church planting
either returned to their homes and provided leadership in their local churches,
or took up employment as teachers, orphanage house parents, or other
service-oriented workers.

The Sombua congregation (located on the Wat Preah Yesu property) was officially
organized as a church in September 2000 and the Sombua church building was
dedicated in January 2002.

SALT Ministries is still alive and well. The Maddocks family has grown up, and
they all work together in different aspects of the ministry. What more could
parents wish for than to have their children share the same passion for mission?
The answer: their children and their children’s spouses sharing the same passion
for mission!

Twenty years ago the Maddocks gave their financial assets to the Lord, and
watched to see how He would keep His promise. That was an investment for
eternity. To that small investment God has added the investment of many others,
and thousands have come to know Jesus as their Saviour. The lives of many
children have been transformed from miserable and hopeless to lives of joy. The
return on the investment continues to multiply. To Tim and Wendy, these years
have been rich and full of joy. So many times they have been brought to tears of
joy by the unequaled providence of God. Of course, not all of missionary life is
perfect. There are dangers, sickness, disappointments when people you have loved
turn their back on the Lord, and personal tests to see how far faith will
stretch, but the rewards far outweigh all the difficulties. Today, they continue
to live by faith, and God continues to provide and expand their vision for the
future.

Tim and Wendy are just a couple of average, ordinary people, privileged to have
been called to live extraordinary lives. To all of you who have prayed for them
and continue to remember the Maddocks and SALT Ministries in prayer—thank you!
To the many thousands of people who have given both small and large amounts to
keep the work of SALT Ministries going and growing, thank you! One of the
greatest joys will be the day in heaven when you can be introduced to your
treasure, the souls whom have been helped to know Jesus through your prayers,
time and money.

Now, more than ever before, the Maddocks and SALT Ministries need your prayers.
Satan will throw everything in the book at them to distract them from their
mission. They need to keep focused on what will make a life transforming
difference for the people around us. Please make this a matter of prayer.

SALT Ministries has been supported by a faithful group of prayer warriors who
have upheld the Maddocks family and their ministry in prayer, through the last
20 years. The newsletter, known as the “Prayer Journal,” has been the tool used
to keep supporters up to date with how God has been blessing, and with special
prayer needs. Many people have expanded their support by sharing these journals
with their churches and friends. If you are not already on the “Prayer Journal”
mailing list, we would be happy to add your name and keep you informed with
God’s miracles as they happen. Click here to do this.
