---
layout: page
title: Butterfly Paradise
permalink: /butterfly-paradise/
author: Tim Maddocks
menus: [ main ]
sort: 9
---

Dream with me . . .

You and I alight from a tourist bus with 43 other tourists. As we look up, we
see the world’s largest butterfly sculpture: a 10-metre high Golden Birdwing
butterfly feeding from a flower.

Having taken photos with the giant butterfly, we turn toward the large butterfly
enclosure. To enter the enclosure, we walk through a long giant green
caterpillar, and pay our $5 entrance fees. As we step out of the caterpillar, we
are struck by the beauty of a tropical paradise. We see flowing streams stocked
with large colourful fish, as well as small crocodiles and tortoises. Everywhere
around us butterflies of all colours and sizes flutter around and feed from
exotic flowers growing in the lush gardens.

As we walk, we feel a sense of peace and tranquility that shrouds this Eden-like
place. Throughout the garden there are multiple reminders that nature’s design
is the hallmark of a creator God.

Seeing a secluded hut, we take a rest on comfortable butterfly-shaped cushions.
A small plaque catches our eye: “It is time to return to the worship of the
Creator God.”

After we rest and meditate on the origin of the beauty around us, we venture
back along the stone paths toward the Chrysalis restaurant to savour the
delicious vegan foods and natural juices offered there. As we sit at our table
beside a pool of beautiful Koi fish, we are greeted by a host of butterflies
sipping from the juices of tropical fruit placed on a platter on our table. This
live, natural entertainment all around us while we await our meal is enough to
bring new life to tired bones.

The Koi gather in the pool near our table, as if they are waiting for a meal as
well. We notice a small sign saying, “Feed the fish for $1 and feed an orphan
for a day.” This is a win-win-win: We get to enjoy the frenzy of colour, the Koi
get lunch, and we hand over enough money to feed an orphan for a day.

Lunch over, we enter into the small animal house: a dark room with top-lit tanks
containing spiders, scorpions, centipedes, unusual insects and many kinds of
snakes. We soon realise why the room is dark—all around us fireflies flash their
brilliant green lights.

Leaving the animal house, we come across massage tables with friendly students
waiting to spoil us with a healthful massage. Even while we have a massage, we
can still enjoy the butterflies flying all around us.

When the massage is over, it is time to head to the bus. But first, we pass
under a beautiful waterfall and enter the souvenir shop.

Wallet somewhat lighter (but it’s OK because the profit was going to a good
  cause), and bags of beautiful souvenirs in hand, we leave the butterfly
  paradise. We are poorer, happier, and changed, as we have realised that beauty
  has a designer and the design speaks of eternal love.

“The most effective way to teach the heathen who know not God is through His
works. In this way, far more readily than by any other method, they can be made
to realize the difference between their idols, the works of their own hands, and
the true God, the Maker of heaven and earth. . . . There is a simplicity and
purity in these lessons direct from nature that makes of the highest value to
others besides the heathen. The children and youth, all classes of students,
need the lessons to be derived from this source. In itself the beauty of nature
leads the soul away from sin and worldly attractions, and toward purity, peace,
and God” (Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, page 186).

-----

At Wat Preah Yesu, we are now taking care of 136 orphans and 12 orphaned youth.
The care, food, clothing and education of these 148 young people costs
approximately $8200 per month. In addition, we have 59 boarding students that
cost us about $2400 per month and numerous day students who can’t afford to pay
fees. The media studio currently employs 7 young people at approximately $800
per month. Then we have electricity, diesel, other wages and maintenance, all of
which tallies to around $13,000 per month. While it sounds a lot, it feeds 207
children, educates 320 children, and keeps Christian video production going. By
the grace of God, our generous donors and sponsors of students have been able to
keep all of this operating.

Some months we have plenty, some months we have just enough, and some months we
eat into money reserved for special projects. For the past six months, we have
been eating into reserves for special projects as well as using the credit card.
This has been the pattern for many years, with God always providing funding just
when it seems there is no way out. This is our walk of faith. It has led us to
trust that even though it seems like we have gone beyond the point of no return,
God will come through. While man often fails, failure is not an option for God.
Why should it be when God has all the power and resources of the universe at His
disposal?

The writings of Ellen White encourage institutions such as ours to have
industries to support or supplement finances. For years, we have sought an
industry that would be financially viable and sustainable, and able to
contribute to the all-round development of our young people. Up until now, such
an industry has eluded us. Over the past year, we have introduced small
industries (agriculture, sewing, mechanics, and media) into our program, but
they are not currently profit-making industries.

In Siem Reap, there are three primary ways of making money: tourism, land
speculation, and building. The latter two options are not in our ballpark, and
finding a niche in the tourist industry that is not already occupied and would
not have Sabbath issues has been elusive.

But now a series of events, seeming to collide together through God’s
providence, is directing us toward a new business plan. This business could
potentially provide for most of our operating expenses, as well as contribute
significantly to the developing the spiritual gifts of our young people. The
proposed business? A world-class butterfly garden.

Siem Reap town and most of the more than 100 hotels are within a 5-kilometer
radius of Wat Preah Yesu. There are currently two resort developments within 600
metres of the property, and a proposed new city development with two large
hotels, three convention centres, shopping malls and housing units is to be
built 600 metres to the east of the property. The road down the western side of
Wat Preah Yesu is being widened to 8 metres (which sadly means the loss of some
  land and a line of trees, but means tourist buses would have easy access, and
  the road distance to the larger hotels along the airport road is significantly
  reduced). We have recently benefited from the knowledge of a past staff member
  with butterfly breeding experience, and also from the husband of one of our
  teachers who probably has the best knowledge of Cambodian butterflies and
  their food plants in Cambodia. Most of the butterflies we would need to
  exhibit already live and breed at Wat Preah Yesu.

One question I hear repeatedly from tourists is, “What else is there to do in
Siem Reap?” We would like to offer them an answer, “Butterfly Paradise”. What is
awesome about this business concept is that not only can we make money out of
tourism, but we can introduce tourists from all parts of the world to God,
through the beauty and complexity of His creation.
