---
layout: page
title: Children's Education
permalink: /childrens-education/
menus: [ main ]
sort: 7
---

> “Educating for Eternity” ~ KAS Motto

The founders of SALT Ministries were educated in part at Seventh-day Adventist
schools. On graduating from a public university, Tim and Wendy Maddocks moved to
Western Samoa, where Tim taught science in a Seventh-day Adventist boarding
school. Three years later, the family moved to Fiji, where Tim continued to
teach science at Fulton College. It was therefore natural that God should lead
Tim and Wendy to establish a Seventh-day Adventist school at Wat Preah Yesu.

The school began in 1999 as a literacy school for poor children. In the year
2004, the school was officially recognised by the Cambodian government as a
primary school. Having a Seventh-day Adventist school is important, as the
government schools all open on Saturdays and many schools will not allow
children to have Saturdays off.

Today (2016) Kantrok Adventist School has around 320 students studying in grades
K–12. The primary school (K–6) is recognized by the Cambodian government. The
school is registered as one of the rural schools of the Cambodia Adventist
Mission, but is operated and funded by SALT Ministries. The school body consists
of children from Wat Preah Yesu orphanage, the surrounding villages, and about
67 boarding students. The school is not operated sustainably because none of our
church members’ children or the children from non-Christian homes can afford to
pay the sustainable school fee. At present, we charge a nominal fee of around
$120 per student per year, and the yearly fee for the boarding students is $460,
but many families are too poor to pay this.

The primary school students learn all of their core subjects in Khmer and
English. They also have various Bible, art, computer, and music classes. Each
class also has a bi-weekly outdoor class, where they work outdoors in a
specified area to improve the land. The majority of the primary school classes
are taught by dedicated Cambodian teachers, some of whom are former graduates.

The lower high school students (7–10) study mostly in English. They have all the
core subjects, plus Bible, music, sewing, cooking, tech studies/mechanics,
photography, and computer classes. The upper grades (11 & 12) study the LIGHT
(Lay Institute for Global Health Training) course from the Philippines. This
includes Bible/evangelism, public speaking, medical missionary/health (including
hydrotherapy and massage), and other classes. They also study business math,
English, and a whole range of vocational activities including cooking, sewing,
computer, media production, mechanics, and gardening. The majority of the high
school classes are taught by volunteers from many different places around the
world. Some stay for a year or more, some only a few months, but their service
is much appreciated.

The school is as much a faith venture as SALT Ministries’ other activities. Each
month we pray that sufficient funds will come in to keep the school open for
another month, and each year that God will send the teachers to keep the
programs and classes going. God has been good to our school by giving us not
only lovely buildings, but also a dedicated staff and keen children.
