---
layout: page
title: Multimedia Production
permalink: /multimedia-production/
---

One of the main functions on our campus is the SALTCAM media studio. The staff
work to produce Bible studies on video, healthy cooking shows, and videos
showing links between physical and spiritual health. In addition to these
digital productions, they also publish devotional books and translate various
Adventist books and materials for distribution.

Currently there are about seven staff members working in the SALTCAM studio. The
majority are graduates from Kantrok Adventist School, and some come from a
nearby village. They are all Adventists, dedicated to producing materials that
will help the Cambodian people.

Producing Bible study videos for SALTCAM is quite a process! The staff take the
scripts from SDA Khmer Bible studies and work to make them into videos that will
appeal to Cambodians. The staff recruit actors for the stories (most often by
  church members and KAS students), and video the shots. They explain the
  studies on-screen, add supporting pictures and other video clips, design Bible
  text slides, add sound effects, and more before the videos are finally
  completed.

God has blessed in providing resources for the SALTCAM studio to work with. We
have three large video cameras for filming, a couple of cameras for photos, a
green screen for the main rolls, and various software such as Final Cut Pro,
Adobe After Effects, Photoshop, and Cinema 4D. In addition, our church members
graciously let us use their houses for filming and we obtain extra video clips
from the Adventist church.

The SALTCAM staff isn’t just limited to their studio, though. They are often
asked to film various events in Cambodia and Thailand. Some of these include ASI
(Southeast Asia); children’s ministries, women’s ministries, and Pathfinder
events; camp meetings; and other events at churches around the country.

SALTCAM productions are watched by Khmer Christians and non-Christians alike, of
all ages. The staff continually work to make the materials interesting and
simple for people to understand. Our videos are easily accessible on YouTube and
DVDs.

Watch the videos below to get a taste of the types of video materials the
SALTCAM studio produces!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6WxD_EJUk7I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7ll5kqnmJ4Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VFyIKRmqj6U" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kVE3eslP1zo" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bfWx-UkTnAE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
