---
layout: page
title: Orphans
permalink: /orphans/
---

Wat Preah Yesu Children’s Home, opened in March 2003, is caring for orphaned and
severely disadvantaged children in Cambodia. The Home is located in Siem Reap
Province at the rural centre known as Wat Preah Yesu. As of today, the orphanage
is caring for around 120 children, between 2 and 25 years old. The children
mostly come from the poorer rural class of people, many of them having received
very little or no schooling. Many of our children have been orphaned by the
silent killer HIV/AIDS.

When a child arrives at the Wat Preah Yesu Children’s Home, they are immediately
placed into a new family where they can receive the love and nurture that every
child needs. The new family includes a husband and wife team as the new parents,
the natural children of the parents, and other orphans already integrated into
the family. Up to 16 orphaned or disadvantaged children are placed into a
family. The goal is to create a new lifetime family, with the orphaned children
considering their new parents as parents for life. To this end, the family
operates as much as possible like any normal Christian family. Wat Preah Yesu
Children’s Home operates with minimal management, based on the belief that every
family should manage itself. Tim and Wendy Maddocks, the founders and
co-directors of the Home, provide management assistance and counseling when
required. We currently have 9 orphan houses open.

The families are housed in duplex buildings. Each family has a large family
room, two large bedrooms with bunkbeds for boys and girls separately, a bedroom
for the parents, an outside attached kitchen, a large open dining area, and a
wash room. Toilets are detached from the house. The wide veranda around the
house, the high sloping ceilings, and louvered windows in the gable of the roof
create a comfortable environment for tropical weather conditions. Families are
encouraged to grow vegetables, giving the children opportunity to interact with
the natural things that God has created for man’s pleasure.

Each family operates under Christian principles, and the children are encouraged
to develop their own relationship with God. The children are educated at Kantrok
Adventist School, which is also located on the Wat Preah Yesu property.

At the Wat Preah Yesu Children’s Home, there is no stigma associated with
HIV/AIDS. Our 30 children who are HIV positive are treated just like the other
children, with the exception that they receive specialized medical care and
anti-retroviral medications provided by the Angkor Hospital for Children in
nearby Siem Reap.

Eligible children are identified through the network of Seventh-day Adventist
congregations throughout Cambodia, by the Angkor Hospital for Children, or by
the government children’s welfare department. These children are assessed, and
if eligible, accepted into the Home. We currently have children originating from
10 provinces.

The orphanage is operated on the same principles of faith that George Mueller
used in his famous Bristol orphanages. While we do not solicit funds, they are
needed and welcome.
